# RISC-V Single-Cycle Core

A fully functional RISC-V ISA 32-bit Single-Cycle Core complete with R-type, I-type, J-type, U-type, B-type and S-type instructions; 37 total instructions implemented successfully. 

## Architecture 
### Modules: 
- **Top_module.v**: This is the top module where all other modules are instantiated and everything is connected together. In my code this also has a slight change than what is conventionally done, it comprises of of a pc+4 adder block to allow us to use uncondtional jump statements and store the program counter return address.
- **alu.v**: This is the arithmetic logical unit, ALU, it does everything from bitwise operations to addition, subtraction, comparison, etc. This module also generates two crucial flags, zero and less than which are very important for the branch type instructions.
- **control_unit.v**: This is the module that does bulk of the work, it checks what instruction we have, based on it it controls muxes, write enables, resets, control lines to extender and ALU, it basically commands the whole system and makes it streamlined for the instruction received by it.
- **data_memory.v**: This behaves as the RAM for our processor, it is a memory array of 32-bit registers, 1024 words long in our case, this is primararily used in the store and load instructions.
- **instruction_memory.v**: This is the module that comprises of the instructions, hence it has 32-bit registers, in our case, 1024 of them, so it is 32x1024. This is the memory where our program counter points at and moves in, it is the memory where the code to be executed is loaded.
- **program_counter.v**: This is the module that gives the address of the next instruction to the instruction memory, depending on what program counter gives to the instruction memory, the output is the regiister being pointed by program counter's input. This is what controls the jump, branch or rather all steps that involve moving to the next instruction, may it be consecutive or not.
- **program_counter_target.v**: This module is for the purpose of pc+imm, meaning addition of the immediate value generated by the extender block to the program counter, incrementing program counter to that value and passing it to the program_counter.v module. This is necessary for the jump and branch type instructions where the jump and branch are dependent on the pc/register and offset.
- **register_memory.v**: This is the 32-bit-32-word (32x32) array of registers (x0 to x31) of our architecture. It comprises of all general purpose registers except for x0 which is hardwired to zero.
- **sign_extender.v**: This module is used to extend all immediate values to 32-bit so that we can perform operations on them, padding them allows us to do so.
- **testbench.v**: This is clock and global reset generation and top module instantiation, thats all the testbench in this case is, there is no need of anything more.

## Simple Code being run 
This shows the core running the code present currently in the instruction_memory.v which uses all types of instructions once. Refer to uploaded simulation.mp4.

## Instructions implemented 

| Category | Instructions |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Arithmetic & Logic (R-type)** | ADD, SUB, SLL, SLT, SLTU, XOR, SRL, SRA, OR, AND |
| **Immediate Arithmetic (I-type)** | ADDI, SLTI, SLTIU, XORI, ORI, ANDI, SLLI, SRLI, SRAI |
| **Load/Store (I-type & S-type)** | LW, LH, LHU, LB, LBU, SW, SH, SB |
| **Branches (B-type)** | BEQ, BNE, BLT, BGE, BLTU, BGEU |
| **Jumps & Upper Immediates (J-type & U-type)** | JAL, JALR, LUI, AUIPC |

## Future plans :
- pipelining
- hazard control
- interrupt handling
- branch prediction
- extending to support floatnig point numbers
- adding an encryption core

## How to Simulate 
- Fork the repo and download files locally.
- Add all files except README.md and testbench.v to design sources in simulation software of choice.
- Add testbench.v to simulation sources.
- Update whatever code you want into instruction memomry and set the delay for simulation stopping in testbench.
- Simulate and add waveforms you want to view into waveforms window.
